q5Go 0.8.1
 * Adjusted analysis mode to work with the upcoming Leela Zero 0.17.

q5Go 0.8

These are the major user-visible changes in 0.8:
 * Analyzing games with multiple engines now produces sensible results.
   q5go remembers winrates for each engine name and komi combination and
   displays multiple winrate graphs.
 * For engines with fixed komi, batch analysis can now flip the position
   to effectively analyze with reverse komi.
 * For live analysis, it is now possible to choose the analysis engine.
 * There is a new slide export feature which combines the board and
   comments into a single image for use in slide shows or videos.
   File name sequences can be generated automatically.
 * It is now possible to choose between area and territory scoring in
   off-line games.

Minor fixes and improvements include:
 * The board coordinates now scales with the size of the display, their
   size relative to the stones is configurable in the preferences.
 * It is now possible to choose whether to tile or scale the wood
   background image used for the board.
 * The evaluation graph is automatically displayed when a game obtains
   an evaluation for the first time.
 * In online match games, remaining time is now saved to the SGF for both
   player and opponent.
 * It is now possible to hold down LMB and drag in the evaluation graph
   to move to a different position.
 * In the database dialog, "Open" and "Cancel" now work (previously
   only double clicks opened the game).
 * In off-line mode, scoring a scored position again now keeps liveness
   and seki status.
 * A bug was fixed that caused the "Update" button to disappear when
   scoring or editing an off-line copy of an observed game.
 * Loading an SGF file for a game against an engine is now implemented.

q5Go 0.7

These are major user-visible changes in 0.7:
 * Old SGFs and a few new ones use a move at 20:20 to signal pass which
   caused problems when loading such SGFs.
 * q5go can now read kombilo databases.  There is a new file open dialog
   to select a game from the database; it has preview functionality to
   display game information and allow browsing through the game moves.
 * Visibility of menu, status bar, side bar and slider in the board
   window are now saved as part of the layout.  Whatever preferences
   option there were have been removed, except for the one to choose
   whether to place the side bar to the left or the right.

q5Go 0.6

Version 0.6 adds no major new features, but adds a number of smaller fixes
and refinements:
 * Better support for various character sets
 * Better support for various broken SGF files that occur in the wild
 * An "auto-collapse" mode for the game tree, which shows only the
   current variation and the ones following it and collapses everything
   else
 * A tooltip preview for the game tree
 * A file open dialog with an SGF preview
 * An improved version of the batch analysis dialog, with a list view
   for finished jobs and an engine selector
 * Better stone sounds
 * An "automatic diagrams" dialog which can create figures and diagrams
   for an entire file
 * Image export functionality for the evaluation graph
 * Better game tree headers on Windows, working around a Qt problem
 * An updated Chinese translation

q5Go 0.5

Version 0.5 adds the following features:
 * Support for diagrams.  These can be used to either subdivide a game into
   printable diagrams, or to provide a variation display when browsing a
   file in the editor.  The latter case is used by the engine analysis
   mode.
 * A new batch review mode, where the user can choose files to be reviewed
   and hand them off to an engine.  The files can be viewed while the
   analysis is in progress, and there is a winrate graph.
 * A redesigned layout for the user interface.  The various elements of
   the board window (comments, diagram display, game tree, evaluation
   graph and observer list) now exist in docks and can be freely moved
   around.  It is possible to save and restore these layouts.
 * Most icons have been replaced with larger ones, and q5go now uses a
   Qt feature for better results on high-DPI displays.  This is untested,
   I would appreciate feedback as to how well it works on such devices.
 * The command line options have changed.  They are now processed by
   standard library functions and follow normal conventions as a result.

q5Go 0.4

Version 0.4 adds the following features:
 * Support for rectangular boards
 * Support for toroidal boards (with an extended view option and
   scrolling)
 * On-line observer lists, which were dropped in the initial versions
   of q5go, are functioning again
 * Likewise for move time annotations

q5Go 0.3

Version 0.3 adds two major new features:
 * Analysis with Leela Zero or compatible programs
 * A game tree display

Minor changes and fixes include:
 * Some visual improvements for the user interface
 * Time warnings for online play are working again
 * When loading SGF files, unrecognized properties are now
   remembered and saved as per the specification

q5Go 0.2

Version 0.2 is mostly a maintenance release which fixes some issues in 0.1.
 * Fixed a rare crash that occurred when observing an IGS game just as it
   ended.
 * Fixed GTP support to also work on Windows - there were some portability
   issues with the underlying Qt toolkit.
 * Added support for configuring multiple GTP engines like GnuGo or Leela.
 * Allow loading certain types of invalid SGF files that occur in the wild.

q5Go 0.1

Ported to Qt5 and replaced a lot of the old qGo code which was in fairly
poor shape.

There are some changes in the feature list in this version:
 * Added a GTP implementation that works with Leela Zero.  GTP support
   was also improved to be more asynchronous, so as to not lock up the GUI
   while waiting for the engine.
   This is also still slightly experimental.
 * Edit mode behaves differently.  There is now a toolbar to place
   marks at all times. and a button to change the player to move.
   Edit mode is available through a toggle button rather than as a side
   tab, and is only used for adding/removing stones.  New board positions
   are added as a child when leaving edit mode.
 * Some less useful features have been removed when it was easier than
   porting them Qt5 and the replaced foundation.  This includes the user
   toolbar, cutting and pasting variations, "mouse gestures" and
   configurable background colors.
 * Import and export have changed somewhat.  It is now possible to select
   a rectangular sub-area for ASCII and picture export.
   ASCII export now generates diagrams usable in the lifein19x19 forums
   and Sensei's library, including move numbers, with the option of creating
   multiple diagrams for a sequence of moves automatically.  As a
   consequence, the character set used for ASCII display is no longer
   configurable.  ASCII import was removed on the grounds of not
   being very useful.
 * There is a new SVG export to create a vector graphics representation of
   the board.  This also supports exporting subparts of the board.
 * The functionality for saving window sizes was simplified to just always
   save comment orientation.  Size and layout are now remembered separately
   for every encountered screen dimension.
   The functionality to save up to 10 different board sizes with
   keyboard shortcuts was removed.
 * Variation display was improved and the user can chooser between letters
   and ghost stones, as well as choosing whether to use the setting found
   in SGF files or ignore it.

This update was done by Bernd Schmidt <bernds_cb1@t-online.de>.

q4Go 0.2

This is a port of the last qGo (1.5.2) sources from CVS to Qt4. It should be
considered beta quality. The motivation is simply a personal feeling that
the new GUI in qGo2 is a step backwards, and Qt3 is getting increasingly less
supported.

This port was done by Bernd Schmidt <bernds_cb1@t-online.de>.

Below is the old README:

qGo 1.5.2
---------

Startup options:

qGo [options] [<file>]

-sgf		make new sgf file (or simple open a board to play)
-sgf19		same but don't ask and open 19x19 board
-debug		open debug window and show status messages
-desktop	use standard options from desktop
<file>		open file (type sgf, mgt or xml)


qGo is a Go board, SGF editor and client for IGS/NNGS or similar servers.
Go is an ancient boardgame, very common in Japan, China and Korea.

Open index.html for installation support.

support table:

windows:	Qt 3.2.1nc
Linux:		Qt 3.1 and above
Mac OsX:	Qt 3.1 and above

Version 0.1 should be stable including a lot of bugfixes concerning
the go server behavioural.

Version 0.0.14 has many bugfixes and new stones + board coded by
Marin Ferecatu. That's why I dropped the old stones. Further, fonts
and background colors are free selectable.
The autoplay feature can now use sgf time information, thus you can
replay a game in original speed.

Version 0.0.13 offers some teaching tools whereby the teacher starts
a teaching session and his client works as server for the invited
student. The student (if one) is able to play one or both colors, but,
the teacher can always play both colors. Hope this helps for online
teaching.
There's are a watch list and an exclude list too, whereby
entering/leaving of players can be watched as well as players can be
excluded from shouting. I removed the thousands of talk windows and
added a talk tab inside the client window.
The translations have been
enabled again in Version 0.0.13, but, since Peter and me speak only German
and Enlish, there are only these two translations fixed. Thanks to
Emmanuel Beranger for the French translation.
Look at changelog for more details to this version.

Since Version 0.0.12 qGo has it's own client.

qGo is no longer supported by Qt 2.3nc.

----

Version 0.0.7 comes with support for translations. Currently there are
english, french and german versions available.
You can chose the language in the preferences dialog. If system default
is selected, the Unix system locale will be used (LANG environment variable).
Somehow I thought on Windows it would also chose the default language, but
this does not work. The locale on my german windows 2000 is "C" - anything
but the "de" or "de_DE" what Qt expects. Well, Windows.... I don't really
care. Set the language manually and you are fine.
You have to restart qGo to let the language change take effect.
Please contact me if you want to translate qGo to your language. I will put
more detailed informations on the qGo webpage at http://qgo.sourceforge.net

I added a patch from Bernd Schmidt fixing a really nasty SGF parser bug.
Thanks, Bernd!

Version 0.0.6 is mainly a maintaining release with bugfixes and minor
feature enhancements.
Translation files (requested by some users) are not yet in. I plan to
release a version for translations soon.

In version 0.0.5 a SDI interface for multiple boards in one running
process is implemented. It is not using threads, so if you load a
large file like Kogos, it will hang up the program while
loading. Maybe I add thread support, not sure yet. You can always
start several processes, that might be safer than threads.

Support for Kanji letters is implemented in 0.0.5. You can now load
and save games with a text encoding, set in the preferences dialog in
the third tab 'SGF Loading'. You have to select the encoding before
loading a file. You might need to try a bit which encoding fits your
language best. It was tested on japanese (windows and linux), chinese
(linux) and korean (windows) systems and worked.

0.0.4 comes with a basic implementation of XML support.
Currently only reading XML files is done, saving not yet.
Reading XML works with files saved from Jago, but not yet all XML
are loaded properly. Please consider this currently as a draft, XML
code is under development still.

qGo now supports old SGF and MGT files that can sometimes be found
on the web. If it's an old format, it's automatically noticed and qGo
converts the file upon loading into new SGF format.
I found some of those files at the download section of the german
go association.


Copyright
---------

Copyright (C) 2001-2006 Emmanuel Beranger, Johannes Mesa, Peter Strempel

This software is published under the GNU General Public License (GPL).
See the file COPYING for more informations or visit http://www.fsf.org/.

The Windows version is linked against the Qt non-commercial edition
and also published under the GPL with the following exception applying
to the Windows version of qGo:

  As a special exception, the author gives permission to link this program
  with Qt non-commercial edition, and distribute the resulting executable,
  without including the source code for the Qt non-commercial edition in the
  source distribution.

Any feedback is welcome.

Emmanuel Beranger <e2(at!)beranger.com.fr>
Johannes Mesa <frosla(at!)gmx.at>
Peter Strempel <pstrempel(at!)t-online.de>
